source/leadership.rst, before:

.. _leadership:

##################
Project Leadership 
##################

yt-project Members
------------------

A member is someone who has made continued and significant contribution to the
project (changes to the codebase, discussion on mailing lists, feedback on pull
requests, documentation, teaching, etc.) for some period of time. After such a
period, potential new members are nominated for membership by an existing
member and confirmed by positive votes from three additional members. Once a
developer becomes a member, they remain a member for life. A member maintains
the option to give up their membership and have their name removed from the
list. Membership may be revoked for anyone who is deemed to be directly harmful
to the project or the community upon a nomination by another member and five
supporting member votes and an additional vote by the steering committee.
Members may also elect to become emeritus members, and be recognized for their
contributions to the project while also rescinding their write access to the
project. 

Upon the initial creation of yt membership status, all
developers that had contributed at least 50 changesets were granted
membership. The `Project Members page <https://yt-project.org/members.html>`_ 
gives a description of the requirements
for membership and provides a list of all members and the year in which
membership was granted. Members have write access to all official yt
repositories and can, therefore, accept and merge pull requests.

Groups Within the yt Project
----------------------------

The goal of the groups within the yt project is to help focus member energy so
that the yt project can grow, nurture, and develop a healthy group of
contributors, reviewers and maintainers of the project. Each color-coded group
encompasses many members of the community, but hopefully will help to direct
and distribute project member energy.

**Red Group** (includes executive committee, any defined leadership roles) –
Members of this group spend a large part of their time organizing the
yt-project from a high level. They are expected to coordinate their actions
with other red members so that the project presents a coherent position towards
the outside. They are expected to prepare and attend the monthly team calls and
executive committee meetings. We expect red members to teach and grow other
members so that they can pass their organizational responsibilities on to them.
This encourages us to increase diversity, reduce burn-out and allow group
members to shift their focus in reaction to changing life circumstances. If a
red member chooses to change focus, that change of focus will be announced at
the next monthly team meeting. Red group members are expected to also perform
duties of blue group members while facilitating and helping the blue group to
grow.

**Blue Group** (includes all yt project members) – This
is where the journey of a new yt project team member starts. Blue group members
spend a large part of your time facilitating contributions from others to the
project (e.g. reviewing work, answering questions, maintaining project
infrastructure, doing triage of new issues). We expect blue members to teach
and grow contributors that can become blue members. This encourages diversity
of the project. After building a good understanding of the technology and
social structure of the project blue members can change to a red member by
volunteering for tasks which a red member is expected to perform. After a while
of doing so the group will ask if you want to become a red member and, if you
agree, recognise you as such at a monthly team meeting.

**Yellow Group** - Yellow group members are new contributors to the yt-project.
Yellow group members do not have commit access to the yt project yet, but may
have submitted a bugfix or documentation improvement and would like to
contribute more. Yellow group members do not have high-level project
responsibility, but may start to seek out involvement in the project by
attending triage meetings. 

**Green Group** (can be any person, any time, self-nominated only)-- This group
applies to members of the community whose life situation has changed so that
they prefer to (temporarily) not take on the rights and responsibilities of
being an active member. Membership to the green group is invoked by
self-nomination. They can return to active membership by resuming their
community activities. Their return will be announced at the next team meeting
or via the developers mailing list.

**Emeritus Group** (time based or self-nominated)-- this group is for members
of the community at any level that have a prolonged leave of member duties from
the yt project. We welcome participation in the community for any length of
time, and this is a way to retire from the project. A project member may become
emeritus by self-nomination or by not interacting in a membership capacity on
the yt project for over 2 years. After this time, a member of the executive
committee will contact an inactive member and see if they wish to remain active
or transition to an emeritus role. 

Finally, members of the community that wish to not be associated with the yt
project may request to be removed from any/all teams/groups/committees and
documentation by e-mailing either confidential@yt-project.org or
yt-exec@googlegroups.com.

Steering Committee
------------------

Members are eligible to serve on the yt project steering committee (also
sometimes referred to as the executive committee). The
steering committe shall meet quarterly or more often as needed to discuss
project-related business. Members may join the steering committee by attending
one of the team meetings and self-nominating. Once nominated, a nominee's entry
to the steering committee will be voted on by members of the steering committee
by a vote ratio equal or exceeding to 3/5. One person on the steering
committee shall act as the coordinator, in charge of making sure the team
meetings happen. All developers are welcome to participate in team meetings.

Defined Leadership Roles
------------------------

Within the yt project, there are a few positions that are defined so that the
project can maintain continuity as members shift in the amount of
responsibility they wish to take on. While project members may take on some
responsibilities associated with these roles as they wish, at least one project
member must be associated with each leadership role defined below. Members that
wish to roll off of a leadership role may do so by announcing at a team
meeting, and a new member will self-nominate to fill the position. If
multiple members self-nominate, then members of the steering committee will
vote to instate the new leader. Members that are in a defined leadership role
are not necessarily steering committee members, but are red group members.  

**Mentorship Shepherd** -- The mentorship shepherd helps to grow yellow group 
members to blue group members. The mentorship shepherd will help yellow members
find bugs and issues that they may wish to approach in the future, and, if
necessaary, contact a blue or red team member to assist the yellow member. 

**Triage Leader** -- The triage leader is responsible for ensuring that triage
meetings get scheduled and facilitaates member participation in the triage
meetings. The triage leader is expected to schedule and publicly announce
triage meetings on the mailing list(s), the project slack, and 
help new attendees understand the triage process. The triage leader will also
tag and contact relevant knowledge experts to resolve issues or review pull
requests, when relevant. 

**The Timekeeper** -- The timekeeper helps to keep things running in the yt
project in all ways time. This involves sending out polls to determine members'
availability for meetings, scheduling those meetings, and running or ensuring a
member is running a meeting. The timekeeper will announce all public meetings
on project mailing lists, in the project slack, and, when relevant, on the
project social media channels.

Commit message:

add sentence on how new leadership roles get created

source/leadership.rst, after:

.. _leadership:

##################
Project Leadership 
##################

yt-project Members
------------------

A member is someone who has made continued and significant contribution to the
project (changes to the codebase, discussion on mailing lists, feedback on pull
requests, documentation, teaching, etc.) for some period of time. After such a
period, potential new members are nominated for membership by an existing
member and confirmed by positive votes from three additional members. Once a
developer becomes a member, they remain a member for life. A member maintains
the option to give up their membership and have their name removed from the
list. Membership may be revoked for anyone who is deemed to be directly harmful
to the project or the community upon a nomination by another member and five
supporting member votes and an additional vote by the steering committee.
Members may also elect to become emeritus members, and be recognized for their
contributions to the project while also rescinding their write access to the
project. 

Upon the initial creation of yt membership status, all
developers that had contributed at least 50 changesets were granted
membership. The `Project Members page <https://yt-project.org/members.html>`_ 
gives a description of the requirements
for membership and provides a list of all members and the year in which
membership was granted. Members have write access to all official yt
repositories and can, therefore, accept and merge pull requests.

Groups Within the yt Project
----------------------------

The goal of the groups within the yt project is to help focus member energy so
that the yt project can grow, nurture, and develop a healthy group of
contributors, reviewers and maintainers of the project. Each color-coded group
encompasses many members of the community, but hopefully will help to direct
and distribute project member energy.

**Red Group** (includes executive committee, any defined leadership roles) –
Members of this group spend a large part of their time organizing the
yt-project from a high level. They are expected to coordinate their actions
with other red members so that the project presents a coherent position towards
the outside. They are expected to prepare and attend the monthly team calls and
executive committee meetings. We expect red members to teach and grow other
members so that they can pass their organizational responsibilities on to them.
This encourages us to increase diversity, reduce burn-out and allow group
members to shift their focus in reaction to changing life circumstances. If a
red member chooses to change focus, that change of focus will be announced at
the next monthly team meeting. Red group members are expected to also perform
duties of blue group members while facilitating and helping the blue group to
grow.

**Blue Group** (includes all yt project members) – This
is where the journey of a new yt project team member starts. Blue group members
spend a large part of your time facilitating contributions from others to the
project (e.g. reviewing work, answering questions, maintaining project
infrastructure, doing triage of new issues). We expect blue members to teach
and grow contributors that can become blue members. This encourages diversity
of the project. After building a good understanding of the technology and
social structure of the project blue members can change to a red member by
volunteering for tasks which a red member is expected to perform. After a while
of doing so the group will ask if you want to become a red member and, if you
agree, recognise you as such at a monthly team meeting.

**Yellow Group** - Yellow group members are new contributors to the yt-project.
Yellow group members do not have commit access to the yt project yet, but may
have submitted a bugfix or documentation improvement and would like to
contribute more. Yellow group members do not have high-level project
responsibility, but may start to seek out involvement in the project by
attending triage meetings. 

**Green Group** (can be any person, any time, self-nominated only)-- This group
applies to members of the community whose life situation has changed so that
they prefer to (temporarily) not take on the rights and responsibilities of
being an active member. Membership to the green group is invoked by
self-nomination. They can return to active membership by resuming their
community activities. Their return will be announced at the next team meeting
or via the developers mailing list.

**Emeritus Group** (time based or self-nominated)-- this group is for members
of the community at any level that have a prolonged leave of member duties from
the yt project. We welcome participation in the community for any length of
time, and this is a way to retire from the project. A project member may become
emeritus by self-nomination or by not interacting in a membership capacity on
the yt project for over 2 years. After this time, a member of the executive
committee will contact an inactive member and see if they wish to remain active
or transition to an emeritus role. 

Finally, members of the community that wish to not be associated with the yt
project may request to be removed from any/all teams/groups/committees and
documentation by e-mailing either confidential@yt-project.org or
yt-exec@googlegroups.com.

Steering Committee
------------------

Members are eligible to serve on the yt project steering committee (also
sometimes referred to as the executive committee). The
steering committe shall meet quarterly or more often as needed to discuss
project-related business. Members may join the steering committee by attending
one of the team meetings and self-nominating. Once nominated, a nominee's entry
to the steering committee will be voted on by members of the steering committee
by a vote ratio equal or exceeding to 3/5. One person on the steering
committee shall act as the coordinator, in charge of making sure the team
meetings happen. All developers are welcome to participate in team meetings.

Defined Leadership Roles
------------------------

Within the yt project, there are a few positions that are defined so that the
project can maintain continuity as members shift in the amount of
responsibility they wish to take on. While project members may take on some
responsibilities associated with these roles as they wish, at least one project
member must be associated with each leadership role defined below. Members that
wish to roll off of a leadership role may do so by announcing at a team
meeting, and a new member will self-nominate to fill the position. If
multiple members self-nominate, then members of the steering committee will
vote to instate the new leader. 

As the project matures, a new leadership position
may present itself based on a member taking on a specific role within the
project. A member may present this new leadership position in the governance
documentation repository as an issue or bring it up in a yt project team
meeting, where members of the project will decide whether to add it to these
defined roles. 

Members that are in a defined leadership role
are not necessarily steering committee members, but are considered 
red group members. 

**Mentorship Shepherd** -- The mentorship shepherd helps to grow yellow group 
members to blue group members. The mentorship shepherd will help yellow members
find bugs and issues that they may wish to approach in the future, and, if
necessaary, contact a blue or red team member to assist the yellow member. 

**Triage Leader** -- The triage leader is responsible for ensuring that triage
meetings get scheduled and facilitaates member participation in the triage
meetings. The triage leader is expected to schedule and publicly announce
triage meetings on the mailing list(s), the project slack, and 
help new attendees understand the triage process. The triage leader will also
tag and contact relevant knowledge experts to resolve issues or review pull
requests, when relevant. 

**The Timekeeper** -- The timekeeper helps to keep things running in the yt
project in all ways time. This involves sending out polls to determine members'
availability for meetings, scheduling those meetings, and running or ensuring a
member is running a meeting. The timekeeper will announce all public meetings
on project mailing lists, in the project slack, and, when relevant, on the
project social media channels.
