source/roles.rst, before:

.. _roles:

##########################
Roles Within the Community 
##########################

Contributors/Developers
-----------------------

Anybody who submits code to a repository within the yt project organization
that is merged is
considered a contributor to the project. Contributors to each package will be
added to a list of project contributors for that package. For the core yt
package, a `list of contributors
<https://github.com/yt-project/yt/blob/master/CREDITS>`_ is maintained in the
source code repository and on the `yt project website
<https://yt-project.org/about.html>`_. For the purposes of clarity,
contributors and developers are terms used interchangably. Contributors'
technical contributions are expected to follow the developer guide of the
package. For example, the code guidelines for the yt core package may be found `here
<https://yt-project.org/doc/developing/developing.html#requirements-for-code-submission>`_ .  

Reviewers
---------

Any person can be a reviewer of code submitted to the yt project. Project
members have access to merge new code, however we strongly feel that valuable
and important reviews may and do come from outside of the project membership.
There is no requirement to be a project contributor/developer or maintainer to
be a code reviewer. We also strongly encourage yt users to review code submitted to
yt so that their experience is incorporated into new versions of the project. 
Broadly, reviewers will
look through code to make sure it behaves as expected, is documented
thoroughly, is adequately tested, is appropriate for the project, and follows
the `requirements for code submission 
<https://yt-project.org/doc/developing/developing.html#requirements-for-code-submission>`_. 

Maintainers
-----------

Project maintainers perform duties of contributors and reviewers, while also
actively participating in the community in a number of additional ways.
Maintainers help users by answering questions on the users mailing list or in
the yt project slack channel. Maintainers also help developers sketch out
sustainable ways of implementing new features. Maintainers might also
periodically go through open issues and submit bugfixes or improve
documentation as needed to keep the project running smoothly. Often maintainers
will be yt project members (and have commit rights to the repository), but this
is not a hard rule nor is it required.

Commit message:

state purpose of roles definitions in governaance

source/roles.rst, after:

.. _roles:

##########################
Roles Within the Community 
##########################

Often, various roles are colloquially referred to in project documentation, in
project discussions, or in communication channels. Here we define what each
role is, and how individuals who are active within the project may identify
their roles. These roles are not necessarily formalized (though the contributor
list is), but these definitions may be useful to ensure members of the project
have a consistent convention for referring to work within the project. 

Contributors/Developers
-----------------------

Anybody who submits code to a repository within the yt project organization
that is merged is
considered a contributor to the project. Contributors to each package will be
added to a list of project contributors for that package. For the core yt
package, a `list of contributors
<https://github.com/yt-project/yt/blob/master/CREDITS>`_ is maintained in the
source code repository and on the `yt project website
<https://yt-project.org/about.html>`_. For the purposes of clarity,
contributors and developers are terms used interchangably. Contributors'
technical contributions are expected to follow the developer guide of the
package. For example, the code guidelines for the yt core package may be found `here
<https://yt-project.org/doc/developing/developing.html#requirements-for-code-submission>`_ .  

Reviewers
---------

Any person can be a reviewer of code submitted to the yt project. Project
members have access to merge new code, however we strongly feel that valuable
and important reviews may and do come from outside of the project membership.
There is no requirement to be a project contributor/developer or maintainer to
be a code reviewer. We also strongly encourage yt users to review code submitted to
yt so that their experience is incorporated into new versions of the project. 
Broadly, reviewers will
look through code to make sure it behaves as expected, is documented
thoroughly, is adequately tested, is appropriate for the project, and follows
the `requirements for code submission 
<https://yt-project.org/doc/developing/developing.html#requirements-for-code-submission>`_. 

Maintainers
-----------

Project maintainers perform duties of contributors and reviewers, while also
actively participating in the community in a number of additional ways.
Maintainers help users by answering questions on the users mailing list or in
the yt project slack channel. Maintainers also help developers sketch out
sustainable ways of implementing new features. Maintainers might also
periodically go through open issues and submit bugfixes or improve
documentation as needed to keep the project running smoothly. Often maintainers
will be yt project members (and have commit rights to the repository), but this
is not a hard rule nor is it required.
